Add Maintainer Validation System Post (#109)
Bioconductor/biocblog: posts/2026-06-16-maintainer-validation/index.qmd

---
title: "Bioconductor Maintainer Validation"
description: |
  Bioconductor Package Maintainer Validation System
author:
  - name: Lori Shepherd-Kern
    url: https://github.com/lshep
date: 2026-06-15
categories:
  - Bioconductor
  - Infrastructure
  - Developer Engagement
  - Policies and Procedures
image: "feature-image.jpg"
format:
  html:
    toc: true
---

## Introduction

Bioconductor policies include being an active and reachable
maintainer. Maintainer emails in the DESCRIPTION of packages often go stale as
maintainers change positions. There is also a necessity to have maintainers opt
into Bioconductor policies and procedures as they change over time.

> We have created an application that utilizes AWS SES services to send periodic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have created an application that uses Amazon Simple Email Service (SES) to send periodic
```

emails to maintainers to check if the endpoint is reachable and to send a
verification opt-in of Bioconductor current policies and procedures and code of
conduct once a year.

![](MaintainerEmail.jpg){fig-alt="Photo of Email" fig-align="center"}

Initial feedback is that this email is "spammy" and may be marked as such by
institutions, but it is an initial attempt at compliance.  We will look at

> altrenatives to emails like specialized maintainer account access at a future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alternatives to emails like specialized maintainer account access at a future
```

date.

#### Access to Information

The information is in a publicly accessible database. We do not recommend
connecting directly to the webservice but instead using the accompanied
Bioconductor R package
[BiocMaintainerApp](https://bioconductor.org/packages/BiocMaintainerApp/). It

> provides a ShinyApp interface for querying Bioconductor package maintainers'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provides a Shiny application interface for querying Bioconductor package maintainers'
```

information.

![](feature-image.jpg){fig-alt="Photo of ShinyApp" fig-align="center"}

#### Thank you

> We appreciate all maintainer compliance moving forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We appreciate maintainers' cooperation moving forward.
```
